I again fellow guitarist and youtubers
Zayn Sharon here with lesson three in
advanced strumming techniques in this
one we're going to look at something
that's very close to my heart something
that I use a lot and that is muting
specifically palm muting with the right
hand while strumming this is a technique
that will give your playing some
sophistication it will lend a little bit
of a percussive element to it and most
importantly for me it will help you in
an accompaniment setting whether you're
singing yourself you're singing with
another you're playing with another
singer or you have another solo
instrument with you such as a guitar or
a violin because it will help avoid
those same sounds that they're making so
that they will come out clear and you
won't have such a jumble which is often
the case with with many duo's and trios
that I see so let's take a look
specifically at what I'm talking about
right now
with the left hand of going to play
simple a major chord now you'll notice
that the pinkie is moving to help mute
those strings in between so they don't
unexpectedly ring out I'm relaxing
pressure also with this chord not taking
them off the strings but just relaxing
pressure in between so that like I said
they don't unexpectedly ring out if
you're not completely secure with your
right hand
the right hand is where the magic
happens I'm going to use the side of my
hand here not the palm as palm-muting
denotes but rather the side of the hand
to move the strings the low strings way
back here at the bridge
if you mute it too high you get nothing
if you mute it too far back you get just
open strings it has to be way back here
at the bridge so that you get an
appropriate sound now what's tricky is
strumming at the same time as keeping
those strings muted what tends to happen
is the wrist moves while the palm muting
remains and then before I do that
percussive hit which by the way is
available as the first lesson in
advanced strumming techniques this one
as you do that percussive hit your hand
will come up a little bit and then come
back down and remain there for the
muting I'm going to try to do this
slowly so you can see exactly what's
going on
you'll notice that the hand mostly stays
here and the wrist is muting those low
strings every time I come up it'd have
obviously has to leave the strings and
then come back down
but as soon as you come back down your
right hand should be ready in that
muting position I use this technique and
a lot of songs that I play just one
example is the Jack Johnson tune upside
down which was played in radio all the
time last few years from the Curious
George soundtrack and I play a little
bit higher with a capo on the 2nd fret
but the two chords here I'm going to
play or simply this e at 9 chord and
then I'm going to play an F sharp minor
but with this open B and high E string
you can find that in lesson 2 of
advanced strumming techniques
okay so here we go with a little bit of
palm muting and percussive hit with the
right hand
what's impossible on the lathe ball get
the well key spinning feel changing
everything and so on and so forth so try
to adapt this into your own plane it's a
great one to get people's feet moving
and to add some sophistication to your
playing so if you like this lesson
please subscribe there are more to come
and I'll check out my websites at the
end of this video and I'll see you in
the next lesson